So we did the products, we have pretty
much all the CRUD methods we need.
We tested a few of them,
they seem to be working fine.
What I want you to do is do
the same thing for the update.
And then, if you can do that, try to
do the same thing for the update point,
just go as far as you can.
And then we'll come back,
we'll figure them out together.
We'll probably move a lot faster on those,
since it's mostly the same as these were,
just different resources.
But I want you to try, and
you can reference the ones we just did
here as an example of how to do them.
Cuz like I said, it's mostly going
to be the same as far as the type
of query you're doing
inside of the intent.
It's just the different resources and
different relationships
that you might run into.
But for the most part, it's the same.
Yeah, let's just add the rest,
where I left off was,
I didn't add the rest of the product stuff
to the routes, so I'm just gonna do that.
So I was gonna go to routes,
or router in my case here, for
the get product by one ID,
since we do have a product in a database.
I'm just gonna say getOneProduct,
like that, product in a database, so
I can actually test this.
I'm gonna go to my Prisma Studio,
I'm gonna grab that ID here for
this product, gonna copy it.
Gonna stop my server, start it again.
Yeah, I got my server started here,
gonna go to Thunder Client.
And I'm going to make a GET
request to api/product/ that id.
And that should allow me to
get a product with that id.
So let's see if this works.
If not, we'll have to fix our stuff.
So I don't need anything here in the body,
cuz we're doing a GET.
I'm ignoring it anyway,
so it doesn't matter.
And I should get back this
same product down here.
And let me just make sure I got my off,
I do, we'll send this request, and I do.
I get back the same product there,
so our getOneProduct works fine.
And just to show you, if I change the 7,
if I just get rid of the 7, I guess, and
send this, it gets back nothing.
Cuz there's not a product with that id,
so.
Okay, so get one works fine.
And then we need to do one for, I think,
delete might have been the last one for
this one, let's see.
Yeah, it's delete.
So we'll go here, and
we'll say deleteProduct.
So now we have deleteProduct.
Going to stop, start.
Go back here, I'm gonna do a DELETE.
And the URL is the same,
all we did was just change from,
GET to DELETE, but the URL is the same.
We're still doing api/product/ this id.
So I wanna delete
the product with this id.
So I'm gonna send that, and, voila,
we deleted the product with that id,
and it's sent back
the thing that we deleted.
And just to verify,
if I tried to get this again,
it should not come back, and
it doesn't, cuz we deleted it.
Right, okay, that seems to be good,
let's move on to the next ones.
Thunder Client is messing me up so
bad, [LAUGH] I think it's another app.
Okay, so let's do updates,
make a new file, update.ts, there we go.
If you are lazy like me, you would just
copy this whole file from product.ts,
put it in update.ts, and just change
the things you needed to change.
I'm not gonna do that, cuz I don't
wanna confuse anyone in this course.
So we'll just keep doing it from scratch.
But in reality,
that's what I would have did, and
now I just wanna change the things.
But I'm just gonna keep it,
we're just gonna go through these, and
you can ask questions along the way.
So let's just write
the function names out.
First, I'll say, what is this?
Yeah, getOneUpdate equals that, okay.
I'm just gonna copy that,
we got getOneUpdate,
we got get, Updates.
We have, createUpdate,
we have updateUpdate,
[LAUGH] that's funny.
And then we have deleteUpdate.
Cool, all five of those.
Import our prisma,
From db, and let's do it.
So to getOneUpdate, we need to get
the update from prisma.update.findUnique.
Well, findUnique won't work right
now until we make a new index.
So I'll just say findFirst for now.
So findFirst, where productId is going
to equal to req.body.productId,
which is what update
should have on the input.
But if it doesn't, we need to add that.
So if I go back to the update, if I wanna
do an update, Which one am I doing?
Wait, hold on.
This is just get one.
I'm sorry, I don't need a productId,
that's for creating, we're good.
Okay, so to getOneUpdate,
we just need the update's id.
So id would be, and
I guess now we can do findUnique.
So id would just be req.params.id.
Then I'll just say res.json, data: update.
And I don't know why I called it update,
that's why I got confused
cuz of the word update.
But it's an update,
[LAUGH] I thought I was doing an update.
No, it's literally an update.
Okay, that's why I got thrown off there,
naming is important.
All right, so we got that,
and let's do getUpdates.
So for getUpdates,
we can say updates
are await prisma.update.findMany,
Where, let's see,
we wanna get all the updates for,
this one's tough cuz it's like,
do you wanna get all the updates for
the signed in user, which will be
spanned across many different products?
Or do you wanna get all the updates for
a certain product?
And if so, where did you send that?
It's not on the query string,
it's not on the URL, is it on the body?
So for now, this is what I said,
this is where res breaks down,
cuz this probably wouldn't
make sense in our UI.
I can't think of a place in that
app where I would wanna see all
the updates spread across
all different products.
I don't think we even have a screen for
that in that design.
But maybe we'll just make it anyway,
yeah, this is where sometimes you've
gotta go back and be like, yeah,
we don't need that, this is a wasted
route, it's not serving a purpose.
But for now, we'll just get all
the updates for the signed in user.
But how will that look like,
because update, yes.
>> But have you thought about
doing a composite route, so
you have an update on
the context of product?
You just kind of keep building on the URI,
it's a reason why we wouldn't do that?
>> That's a great question.
There's no reason why
you wouldn't do that.
In fact, that's a very common pattern
I think people start to do when they
start to deviate from REST.
It's like, let's just allow you to add
different filters or whatever on the query
string, where you could just add on and
select this and add that.
Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that.
It gets pretty advanced at that point.
I mean, you're basically just creating
your own query language at that point,
which is fine if everyone understands it.
And I don't think there's
a problem with that.
The reason I didn't wanna
do it in the course,
cuz I think you then have to
teach someone a query language.
But yeah, that's actually what you would
see in production is what you just
described, nine out of
ten times it's that.
It's like, we're just gonna compose this
URL, we're just gonna keep adding to it.
And then eventually it might get too big,
and someone makes another route, or,
yeah, something down that line,
but yeah, that's a great point.
>> When I've encountered that in the past,
that's usually what I've done.
But I agree that it's like if you
have too composed of a resource,
it can get kinda confusing in the URI.
So probably it works maybe two or
three max.
>> Yeah, the way that I've seen
it is that eventually you gotta
send up how many levels deep you wanna go.
It's like, all right, we'll default
to two levels, anything past that,
you gotta explicitly send up a number
of how many levels you wants to go.
But then you gotta deal with cyclic
relationships, where it's like,
a user might own a product, and
a product might own an update.
But update might belong to a user,
and then you start going deep, but
how do you know when to stop?
And you gotta detect that cyclic nature.
It gets tough with that, but
yeah, great point, exactly.
That's one technique on how you can
break out of the simplicity of REST.
But yeah, so let's say we wanna
get all the updates for a user.
How do we do that?
Because update knows nothing about a user.
And a user knows nothing about an update.
There's no update on the user.
There is no user on an update.
>> It's the product id?
>> Okay, yeah, common ground.
Common ground is a product.
A product knows about an update.
It also knows about a user.
So maybe if we find all the products
that belong to a user, we can get all
the updates for all those products, and
then we get all the updates, right?
Cool, let's do that, or
you could come in here and
make a whole new schema if you wanted
to [LAUGH], and go crazy with it.
There's so many ways around this problem,
but yeah, yes.
>> Would that be like
a many-to-many relationship, and
you'd have that joining table?
>> Yeah, technically, yeah.
If this was SQL,
you'd be creating a join table of,
this id of this update points
to this id of this user.
And you'd just have a bunch of those, and
then all you have to do is just query that
table of like, find all the update IDs
that have this user ID associated with it.
And you could do that, in fact, there is
a way to do that here manually in Prisma,
because they do it for you automatically.
But you can manually make your own table,
doing it that way.
Okay, but yeah, let's do it that way.
So before we get updates,
we gotta get products.
So we could say products are await.
And we already did this in
the product stuff, right?
We already did that over here where
we actually get all the products for
the user.
But it's not abstracted enough for
us to take it,
cuz it's responding to requests and stuff.
And then that's when you start getting,
well, how about we separate
all this stuff out from the whole point
of responding and using all of this?
And that's the epitome
of abstracted Express,
if you ever reach a level where
you feel like that's necessary.
Mostly if you're just a crazy test person
that just wants to test everything with
dependency injection,
you would probably do something like that.
But for the most part,
you don't need all that.
Anyway, yeah, so products will
just be prisma.product.findMany.
So we wanna find all the products where
belongsToId: req.user.id, like that.
And then, we want to include,
The updates, True.
So there we go.
We got the updates on those products,
so we got that.
And then what we wanna do is
just only send back the updates.
So what we can do is we can say,
I don't know what that is,
we could say res.json(data), and
then we could say products.map.
Grab the product, or,
let's just destructure right here.
Get the updates,
I guess you gotta reduce this.
Let's do some of that inline,
I thought that's gonna be less
cleaner on one line, it's not [LAUGH].
So let's get the updates up here.
So updates would be products.,
gotta be there's reduce then.
And we can say, Let's do this.
We'll get allUpdates here.
We'll get product here.
And we can just basically
take the product.updates and
merge it into the new one.
So we'll just say return a new
array of all the updates.
And all the product.updates, like that.
So this will give us the updates,
and then we get to say updates.
There is better ways to do this.
If you have to do this after
coming out of a database,
you're doing it wrong.
This is a telltale sign of,
you don't have the appropriate schema
set up to get the data that you need.
And this is the problem with things like
REST, it's like you're just trying to
make it so generic that you end
up sacrificing optimal querying,
because you need the routes
to be generic enough.
But if you were doing something
a little more specific, not REST,
then you could tailor this query and
the schema to reflect what you need.
There's tradeoffs.
Cuz this is fine, but I don't know,
if this was 10,000, and
this was 20,000, right?
And then, if you were just hitting
your server over and over again.
Now you have 40,000 things
stored in memory per request.
You just can't put that load on
your servers like that constantly.
So you typically wanna avoid
putting things in memory.
And you wanna find a way for
the database to do this for you.
So how do I tell the database to do this
so it happens on the database side and
not my side, right?
So that's why I said, typically if
you have to do something like this,
you probably wanna go back and
update your schemas and stuff.
But I wanted you to see that, cuz I want
you to know that you're not gonna just
write your schemas one time, come in,
write these queries and be done.
You're gonna come and write these queries,
and you're like, I gotta go back.
I gotta go back and change my schemas
because this isn't right, or, like, wow,
I need a new index.
I gotta go back and change my schemas.
It's not so perfect every time.